# Discription about tidy data 
Tidy data 'wearableData.txt' is generated by run_analysis.R by transforming the original observation data from UCI HAR Dataset. 

## Features in tidy data  
Each recoded has  
   * subject_id : An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment. 
   * activity : Recognized human activity.  
   * A 66-feature vector with time and frequence domain variables. See below for the feature vector. 

## 66 feature vector with fime and frequence domain variables. 
Below measurement feature information comes from feature_into.txt of downloaded project data. You can find full description of it from the downloaded path.  

   * tacc_xyz and tgyro_xyz : The time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise.
   * tbodyacc_xyz and tgravityacc_xyz : The acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
   * tbodyaccjerk_xyz and tbodygyrojerk_xyz : The body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals.
   * tbodyaccmag, tgravityaccmag, tbodyaccjerkmag, tbodygyromag, tbodygyrojerkmag : The magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm. 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:
'_xyz' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the x, y and z directions.

<pre>
tbodyacc_xyz
tgravityacc_xyz
tbodyaccjerk_xyz
tbodygyro_xyz
tbodygyrojerk_xyz
tbodyaccmag
tgravityaccmag
tbodyaccjerkmag
tbodygyromag
tbodygyrojerkmag
fbodyacc_xyz
fbodyaccjerk_xyz
fbodygyro_xyz
fbodyaccmag
fbodyaccjerkmag
fbodygyromag
fbodygyrojerkmag
</pre>

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are:

<pre>
_mean: Average mean value of each subject of each activity
_std: Average standard deviation of each subject of each activity
</pre>
