# Prepare tidy data for wearable device

This repository contains the files for generating tidy data for the data collected the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone.
Input data from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. 

A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

## Files
   * README.md - Information about files in this repository. 
   * CodeBook.md - Describe about the data itself and variables. 
   * run_analysis.R - R script that reads and transforms to the clean tidy data with the variable in CodeBook.md. 
   * wearableData.csv - Data example in csv that is generated by run_analysis.R script. Variables are desribed in CodeBook.md. 
   * wearableData.txt - Data example in txt that is generated by run_analysis.R script. Variables are desribed in CodeBook.md. 

## How to generate data
  R script requires these packages installed before running it. Please install and source run_analysis.R 
  <pre><code>
  install.packages("matrixStats")
  install.packages("dplyr") 
  setwd("{your local path where R script was downloaded}")
  source("run_analysis.R") 
  </code></pre>
  
  1. Simple step to download, generate clean tidy data, store into wearableData.csv and wearableData.txt. 
  <pre><code>
  runWearableAnalysis()
  </code></pre>
  
  2. Explore each steps 
     * Download zipped data from remote url. 
     <pre><code>
     dataPath <- downloadAndUnzipProjectData()
     </code></pre>
     * Get full observation data from the downloaded project data 
     <pre><code>
     fullData <- loadTrainingAndTestData(dataPath)
     </code></pre>
     * Create clean & tidy data only for mean and standard deviation for each subject for each activity
     <pre><code>
     tidyDataOfSubjectAcitivity <- createTidyData(selectMeanAndStdMeasurement(fullData))
     </code></pre>
  
